Well, do you sometimes feel like you're running out of the two things that are mentioned in our text discussion today?
Are you low on desire?
Do you lack motivation some days and you're just not sure where you are spiritually or emotionally?
What about power?
Sometimes the lack of desire
affects the power that you have.
Proverbs 2410 says,
If you become discouraged in the day of distress,
your power or strength will be meager.
The study note for Philippians 2.13 makes a very sobering but realistic observation that says,
because of discouragement, personal failings and other factors,
some of God's servants in the past, and we might add, even today, lose their desire to serve,
even to go on living.
That's real talk.
While many of us are experiencing the greatest joys we have ever had because Jehovah's blessings make rich,
we are also facing some of the most troubling times we've ever had,
and sometimes we don't feel so rich.
And that's why our text today is so encouraging.
God is the one.
God is the one who, for the sake of His good pleasure, energizes you,
giving you both the desire and the power to act.
So, God is the one.
When you endure a trial, God is the one.
When you resist temptation, God is the one.
The study note for Philippians 2.13, it concluded in this way.
Paul here shows that when such desire is lacking,
God is pleased to motivate or energize us, especially when we seek help from Him.
Now, isn't that encouraging?
It pleases God to energize us as small and insignificant as we are,
Jehovah takes an interest and is pleased to give us what we need.
But noteworthy is that the context or the text today doesn't say
that Jehovah will get rid of all of our problems by changing our circumstances.
That would be nice.
But it does make clear that it is Jehovah's good pleasure to energize us
and give us the desire to act despite our circumstances.
Now, how does Jehovah do that?
Well, in the Greek, this expression energizes.
It's literally acting within you.
So basically, Jehovah can enhance our waning or diminishing power and desire
with his dynamic, holy spirit.
That spirit can act within us and cause us to become whatever we need to become
to accomplish Jehovah's will.
Now, the numerous Bible examples that highlight the truthfulness of Philippians 2.13.
I'd like to briefly share just three familiar ones that illustrate how
Jehovah sustained his servants not by changing their circumstances,
but by acting within them so that they could endure their circumstances.
First example, 2 Corinthians chapter 12, the Apostle Paul.
Paul speaks here about a thorn in the flesh that was like an angel of Satan
that was constantly slapping him.
In verse 8, Paul begged the Lord about this, that it would depart from him.
But Jehovah said no.
Verse 9, Jehovah says,
My undeserved kindness is sufficient for you.
For my power is being made perfect in weakness, your weakness.
In other words, I'm not going to take away the thorn or change your circumstances,
but I'm going to act within you with my power to help you to endure.
And as a result, look at what Paul concluded in verse 10.
So I take pleasure in weaknesses, in insults, in times of need, in persecutions,
and difficulties for Christ, for when I am weak, my circumstances,
then I am powerful by Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
So question, do you have a thorn in the flesh?
Example 2, 2nd Samuel chapter 4.
Mophibuschef.
Now, if you look in verse 4, when Mophibuschef was 5 years old,
news came from that his father, Jonathan, and his grandfather, King Saul,
had been killed.
The boy's nurse panicked.
She began to carry him.
She was running.
And while fleeing, he fell, and he was crippled.
Now, imagine how this disability must have made Mophibuschef feel.
Maybe they made fun of him because of that.
I wonder how the nurse felt, who may have been the one responsible for dropping him.
But Jehovah acted within Mophibuschef.
Some years later, King David, out of his great love for Jonathan,
who was Mophibuschef's father, expressed loving kindness to Mophibuschef.
He said to him in 2 Samuel chapter 9 and verse 7,
Do not be afraid, for I will certainly show loyal love to you,
for the sake of your father, Jonathan, and I will return to you all the land of Saul,
your grandfather, and you will always die at my table.
Imagine how Mophibuschef's heart must have swelled with appreciation to Jehovah.
He was still cripple, but Jehovah acted within him by giving him the privilege of dining at the King's table.
Question, do you feel crippled by your health or your circumstances?
Example 3, 1 Samuel chapter 1, the example of Hannah.
Hannah had arrived a wife, her name was Pininna.
Verse 6 of chapter 1 says that Pininna vexed her sorely, sorely,
because Hannah was barren.
I wondered about that word vexed, what it really meant.
Webster's dictionary defined vex as,
to bring trouble, distress, and agitation to,
to bring physical distress, to irritate annoy, provoke, persecute, exasperate.
Hannah was quite a mess.
No doubt Hannah, or rather Pininna, was.
No doubt Hannah though suffered this torment frequently in the privacy of her home.
Pininna also publicly vexed her.
No doubt before relatives and friends, while the family attended the festivals at Chilo.
At 1 Samuel chapter 1 verse 10,
it says that Hannah was extremely bitter and wept uncontrollably.
She was depressed.
She prayed, but did Pininna go away?
No she didn't.
But what did Jehovah do for Hannah?
1 Samuel chapter 1 verse 18 says,
Hannah prayed, let your servant find favor in your eyes,
and the woman went on her way and ate,
and her face was no longer downcast.
One publication says that Hannah transferred the weight of her emotional burden
to the shoulders infinitely broader and stronger than her own.
Those of her heavenly father Jehovah.
Pininna was still Pininna,
but Jehovah acted within Hannah so that she was able to endure.
Question, is there a Pininna in your life?
Are you depressed?
Now we could go on and on, but I think we get the point.
Circumstances in life occur over which we have little or no control.
We may feel weak from a thorn in the flesh, like Paul.
We may feel crippled by health or circumstances like Mofibosheth.
We may feel depressed and bitter like Hannah.
It would be so nice if our problems would just go away,
but rarely does that happen.
Sometimes the only solution to our problems is the kingdom.
We know that many here and in the field are low on power and desire at times,
and it's hard to just keep going.
But during those times, turn to Jehovah, like Paul did,
like Mofibosheth did, like Hannah did.
Be confident that Jehovah will sustain you.
He will energize you.
He will act within you with his powerful Holy Spirit.
It is his good pleasure to give you the desire and the power to act within your circumstances.
And as Philippians chapter 2 and verse 13 makes it clear,
when you sense the power of Jehovah's loving hand,
you will know for a certainty that he is the one.